Update kira.markdown (#12505)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/kira.markdown

ha_domain: kira
---

The `kira` integration is the main integration to integrate Keene Electronics IR over IP [Kira](https://k2audio.co.uk/collections/ip-and-internet-control) modules with Home Assistant.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- Remote (emit an IR code when instructed by Home Assistant)
- Sensor (trigger Home Assistant to do something when a particular IR signal is received)

> Some models (original Kira and Kira128) can be configured to act as either a sensor or as a remote or to act as both when set to Standalone mode. The wireless models of Kiras are hardware specific so the receiver can only be integrated as a sensor and the transmitter can only be integrated as a remote. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some models (original Kira and Kira128) can be configured to act as either a sensor or as a remote. They are also able act as both when set to Standalone mode. The wireless models are hardware specific so the receiver can only be integrated as a sensor and the transmitter can only be integrated as a remote. 
```

> If you are using two or more Kiras for point to point IR transfer across your network they can continue to perform this function whilst also acting as a sensor or remote for Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using two or more Kira devices for point to point IR transfer across your network they can continue to perform this function whilst also acting as a sensor or remote for Home Assistant.
```

> ### Example Configuration

Reviewer 2: The first paragaph should be called just "Configuration" and is a level 2 header

```suggestion
## Configuration
```

kira:
```

> Kira modules have no built-in mechanism for auto-discovery, so will need to be configured to send packets to Home Assistant. The process varies according to module type, the documentation for each can be found on the manufacturer's website [Here](https://www.info.keene-electronics.co.uk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kira modules have no built-in mechanism for auto-discovery, so will need to be configured to send packets to Home Assistant. The process varies according to the module type. The documentation for each can be found on the [manufacturer's website](https://www.info.keene-electronics.co.uk).
```

If no sensors or remotes are specified, a sensor with default values will be added.

> ### Configuration

Reviewer 2: So configuration is present here again?

Author: I have changed the title to 'entities' to match the section content

> Restart your Home Assistant server and you should now have an entity called kira_remote (or whatever you called it). To check go to Developer Tools > States and start to type “kira” within the entity list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart Home Assistant and you should now have an entity called `kira_remote` (or whatever you called it). To check go to Developer Tools > States and start to type “kira” within the entity list. 
```

> ![alt text](https://www.info.keene-electronics.co.uk/kira-home-assistant/img/Screenshot%202020-03-18%2016.26.12.png "kira_dev_tools")

Reviewer: We should host the screenshot.

Author: Agreed I would prefer it too. I have created an image repository on github and linked from there. If there is a better way please advise.

Reviewer 2: The image needs to be added to this repository.

Author: I have amended the image links, is this OK?

Some manufacturers (e.g., Samsung) require an IR code to be sent a number of times in a row in rapid succession (usually 3). This doesn't apply to the vast majority of devices, but it can be helpful if needed.

> You now need to edit this file to make sure it contains the codes you want the Kira to blast out as a remote or respond to as a sensor. Note that each time you edit and save the kira YAML you need to restart the server for the changes to take effect, reloading the automations alone is not sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now need to edit `kira_codes.yaml` to make sure it contains the codes you want the Kira to blast out as a remote or respond to as a sensor. Note that each time you edit and save the `kira_codes.yaml` file you need to restart home Assistant for the changes to take effect, reloading the automations alone is not sufficient.
```

Author: agree with the edit will change to include cap "H" for Home Assistant

### Example remote

Using the number 1 button from a Panasonic DVD player:

```yaml
# Example kira_codes.yaml entry
- name: PanaOne

> code: “K 2432 0D31 06EB 0196 01F3 0194 0538 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 0518 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 0518 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 0518 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 0518 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 0518 01B7 2000"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code: "K 2432 0D31 06EB 0196 01F3 0194 0538 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 0518 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 0518 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 0518 01B4 01D3 01B3 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 0518 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 01D3 01B4 01D1 01B7 01D1 01B4 0518 01B7 2000"
```

device: DVD
type: kira
```

> Go to “Configuration” and select “Scripts” and click to add a new script. This is an example using the Panasonic code above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to "Configuration" and select "Scripts" and click to add a new script. This is an example using the Panasonic code above.
```

> ![alt text](https://www.info.keene-electronics.co.uk/kira-home-assistant/img/Screenshot%202020-03-18%2019.55.06.png "kira_script")

Reviewer: Again, host it here.

Author: agreed

> ![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Alan-K2/home-assistant.io/patch-2/source/images/integrations/kira_remote_script.png "kira_script")

Reviewer 2: Images should be done like this:

```suggestion
<p class='img'>
  <img src='/images/integrations/kira_remote_script.png' />
</p>
```

Adjust all other occurrences as well.

Author: At the moment this path gives me a broken link in preview, does the links resolve when this is merged or do I need to submit a separate PR to add images to this repository?

Reviewer 2: The preview does not work fully, because we build the website on publish.
 
You can preview your changes here: <https://deploy-preview-12505--home-assistant-docs.netlify.com/>

When you have filled in the data to match your YAML entry save the script and test it by clicking the play button next to the name you assigned. If all has gone well your Kira module should now blast this IR code and operate your equipment.

> ![alt text](https://www.info.keene-electronics.co.uk/kira-home-assistant/img/Screenshot%202020-03-19%2010.52.40.png "kira_test_remote")

Reviewer: Dito

Author: agreed

  device: DVD
  type: kira
```
Visit the Kira module configuration page and be sure to make the following changes according to your module use:

If this is to be the only use of the Kira module then set the TARGET IP address to be that of your Home Assistant installation. Uncheck the “auto find” option box if present. Click on save and reboot the module.

If the Kira module is to used in conjunction with another module be for IR over IP then leave (or set) the TARGET IP address to that of the other Kira module and in this instance set the COMPUTER IP address to the IP address of your Home Assistant installation. Check the option box to "send to alternative device" if present. Click on save and reboot to make the changes effective.

Note that once you changed the COMPUTER IP you will longer be able to use the Kira utiltiy on your PC to capture IR codes.

> Next within Home Assistant go to Developer tools > states and scroll down the list until you see sensor.kira_(whatever you called it). Aim your remote at the kira and press the buttons you stored the code for. If all is well you should see the state change to match the name you gave to the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next within Home Assistant go to Developer tools -> States and scroll down the list until you see `sensor.kira_(whatever you called it)`. Aim your remote at the Kira device and press the buttons you stored the code for. If all is well you should see the state change to match the name you gave to the code.
```

> ![alt text](https://www.info.keene-electronics.co.uk/kira-home-assistant/img/Screenshot%202020-03-18%2017.32.22.png "kira_sensor_remote")

Reviewer: Dito

Author: agreed

> example automation using these ir codes to toggle a sonoff plug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example automation using these IR codes to toggle a Sonoff plug.
```

```yaml
# Example kira_sensor
- id: '1583339338363'
  alias: Panasonic On
  description: Turn on sonoff s20 relay
  trigger:
  - entity_id: sensor.kira_wireless
    platform: state
    to: PanaOne
  condition: []
  action:
  - device_id: 3628b4f34df943b3b721ead954cf3ca7
    domain: switch
    entity_id: switch.plug2_relay
    type: turn_on
- id: '1584035716024'
  alias: 'Panaxonic Off '
  description: Turn off sonoff s20 relay
  trigger:
  - entity_id: sensor.kira_wireless
    platform: state
    to: PanaTwo
  condition: []
  action:
  - device_id: 3628b4f34df943b3b721ead954cf3ca7
    domain: switch
    entity_id: switch.plug2_relay
    type: turn_off
```

### Code Types

When creating an entry in `kira_codes.yaml`, a few different kinds of codes can be used.

> - **kira**: This is the native wire protocol used by Kira modules. These can be captured using the free kira utility avaiable from the manufacturers website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **kira**: This is the native wire protocol used by Kira modules. These can be captured using the free Kira utility available from the manufacturers website.
```
